In the last video,
you saw the basic beam search algorithm.
In this video, you'll learn some little
changes that make it work even better.
Length normalization is a small change to
the beam search algorithm that can help
you get much better results.
Here's what it is.
Beam search is maximizing
this probability.
And this product here is just expressing
the observation that P(y1) up to y(Ty),
given x, can be expressed as P(y1)
given x times P(y2), given x and
y1 times dot dot dot, up to I guess p
of y Ty given x and y1 up to y t1-1.
Maybe this notation is a bit more scary
and more intimidating than it needs to be,
but this is that probabilities
that you see previously.
Now, if you're implementing these, these
probabilities are all numbers less than 1.
Often they're much less than 1.
And multiplying a lot of numbers less
than 1 will result in a tiny, tiny,
tiny number,
which can result in numerical underflow.
Meaning that it's too small for
the floating part representation in
your computer to store accurately.
So in practice, instead of maximizing
this product, we will take logs.
And if you insert a log there, then log
of a product becomes a sum of a log,
and maximizing this sum of log
probabilities should give you
the same results in terms of
selecting the most likely sentence y.
So by taking logs,
you end up with a more numerically stable
algorithm that is less
prone to rounding errors,
numerical rounding errors, or
to really numerical underflow.
And because the log function,
that's the logarithmic function,
this is strictly monotonically
increasing function, maximizing P(y).
And because the logarithmic function,
here's the log function, is a strictly
monotonically increasing function,
we know that maximizing log
P(y) given x should give
you the same result as
maximizing P(y) given x.
As in the same value of y that maximizes
this should also maximize that.
So in most implementations,
you keep track of the sum
of logs of the probabilities rather
than the protocol of probabilities.
Now, there's one other change
to this objective function
that makes the machine translation
algorithm work even better.
Which is that, if you referred to
this original objective up here,
if you have a very long sentence,
the probability of that sentence
is going to be low, because you're
multiplying as many terms here.
Lots of numbers are less than 1 to
estimate the probability of that sentence.
And so if you multiply all the numbers
that are less than 1 together,
you just tend to end up
with a smaller probability.
And so this objective function
has an undesirable effect,
that maybe it unnaturally tends to
prefer very short translations.
It tends to prefer very short outputs.
Because the probability of a short
sentence is determined just by multiplying
fewer of these numbers are less than 1.
And so the product would
just be not quite as small.
And by the way,
the same thing is true for this.
The log of our probability is
always less than or equal to 1.
You're actually in this range of the log.
So the more terms you have together,
the more negative this thing becomes.
So there's one other change to
the algorithm that makes it work better,
which is instead of using this as the
objective you're trying to maximize, one
thing you could do is normalize this by
the number of words in your translation.
And so this takes the average of the log
of the probability of each word.
And this significantly reduces the penalty
for outputting longer translations.
And in practice, as a heuristic instead
of dividing by Ty, by the number
of words in the output sentence,
sometimes you use a softer approach.
We have Ty to the power of alpha,
where maybe alpha is equal to 0.7.
So if alpha was equal to 1, then yeah,
completely normalizing by length.
If alpha was equal to 0, then,
well, Ty to the 0 would be 1,
then you're just not normalizing at all.
And this is somewhat in between full
normalization, and no normalization, and
alpha's another hyper parameter you
have within that you can tune to
try to get the best results.
And have to admit, using alpha this way,
this is a heuristic or this is a hack.
There isn't a great theoretical
justification for it, but
people have found this works well.
People have found that it works well in
practice, so many groups will do this.
And you can try out different
values of alpha and
see which one gives you the best result.
So just to wrap up how
you run beam search,
as you run beam search you see a lot
of sentences with length equal 1,
a lot of sentences with length equal 2,
a lot of sentences with length equals 3.
And so on, and
maybe you run beam search for 30 steps and
you consider output sentences
up to length 30, let's say.
And so with beam with a 3,
you will be keeping
track of the top three possibilities for
each of these possible sentence lengths,
1, 2, 3, 4 and so on, up to 30.
Then, you would look at all of the output
sentences and
score them against this score.
And so you can take your top sentences and
just compute this
objective function onto sentences that you
have seen through the beam search process.
And then finally, of all of these
sentences that you validate this way,
you pick the one that achieves
the highest value on this normalized log
probability objective.
Sometimes it's called a normalized
log likelihood objective.
And then that would be the final
translation, your outputs.
So that's how you implement beam search,
and
you get to play this yourself
in this week's problem exercise.
Finally, a few implementational details,
how do you choose the beam width B?
The larger B is, the more
possibilities you're considering, and
does the better the sentence
you probably find.
But the larger B is,
the more computationally expensive your
algorithm is, because you're also
keeping a lot more possibilities around.
All right, so finally,
let's just wrap up with some thoughts
on how to choose the beam width B.
So here are the pros and cons of setting
B to be very large versus very small.
If the beam width is very large,
then you consider a lot of possibilities,
and so you tend to get a better result
because you are consuming a lot of
different options, but it will be slower.
And the memory requirements will also
grow, will also be compositionally slower.
Whereas if you use a very small beam
width, then you get a worse result because
you're just keeping less possibilities
in mind as the algorithm is running.
But you get a result faster and the memory
requirements will also be lower.
So in the previous video, we used in our
running example a beam width of three,
so we're keeping three
possibilities in mind.
In practice, that is on the small side.
In production systems, it's not uncommon
to see a beam width maybe around 10,
and I think beam width of 100
would be considered very large for
a production system,
depending on the application.
But for research systems where people
want to squeeze out every last drop of
performance in order to publish
the paper with the best possible result.
It's not uncommon to see people
use beam widths of 1,000 or 3,000,
but this is very application,
that's why it's a domain dependent.
So I would say try other variety of values
of B as you work through your application.
But when B gets very large,
there is often diminishing returns.
So for many applications, I would
expect to see a huge gain as you go
from a beam widht of 1, which is very
greedy search, to 3, to maybe 10.
But the gains as you go from 1,000 to
3,000 in beam width might not be as big.
And for those of you that have taken maybe
a lot of computer science courses before,
if you're familiar with computer
science search algorithms like BFS,
Breadth First Search, or
DFS, Depth First Search.
The way to think about beam search is
that, unlike those other algorithms which
you have learned about in a computer
science algorithms course, and
don't worry about it if you've
not heard of these algorithms.
But if you've heard of Breadth First
Search and Depth First Search then unlike
those algorithms,
which are exact search algorithms.
Beam search runs much faster but does not
guarantee to find the exact maximum for
this arg max that you would like to find.
If you haven't heard of breadth
first search or depth first search,
don't worry about it,
it's not important for our purposes.
But if you have, this is how beam
search relates to those algorithms.
So that's it for beam search,
which is a widely used algorithm in
many production systems, or
in many commercial systems.
Now, in the circles in the sequence
of courses of deep learning,
we talked a lot about error analysis.
It turns out, one of the most useful
tools I've found is to be able to do
error analysis on beam search.
So you sometimes wonder,
should I increase my beam width?
Is my beam width working well enough?
And there's some simple things
you can compute to give you
guidance on whether you need to work
on improving your search algorithm.
Let's talk about that in the next video.